CISC 454 Assignment 4
Due Friday, April 7 at noon


EXTENSION: YOU MAY SUBMIT BEFORE FRIDAY, APRIL 14 AT NOON WITHOUT PENALTY.


You are to add code to a raytracer to do the following:

  Pixel antialising with jittering
  Glossiness
  Soft shadows from area light sources

  See "YOUR CODE HERE" in scene.cpp.

  Change only the code in scene.cpp.


How to run the code

  On Linux or MacOS, execute

    ./rt inputFilename

  The inputFilename is one of the scenes in the 'worlds' directory,
  like '../worlds/teapot'.

  On Windows with Visual Studio, OPEN THE ASSIGNMENT BY DOUBLE-CLICKING
  ON 'rt.vcxproj' IN THE 'windows' FOLDER.

  In Visual Studio, put the inputFilename in the project properties as
  a command-line argument in the Debugging section.


In the raytracing window

  As long as you're dragging the mouse to shift the viewpoint, the
  scene will be redrawn quickly using OpenGL.  As soon as you stop
  dragging the mouse, the raytracing code is called, and eventually a
  raytraced image is shown.  You can drag the mouse again while the
  raytracing is being done; the raytracing will be restarted as soon
  as you stop dragging.

  Note that the raytracing pixels are 2x2 normal pixels (controlled by
  PIXEL_SCALE in scene.h).  This is to show the effects of antialiasing.
  You might want to set PIXEL_SCALE to 4 when debugging your
  antialiasing to make the effect more visible.  You can also use
  CTRL-left mouse to zoom in on pixels.

  In the rendering window, press '?' to get a list of options in the
  console window.  These options allow you to change many things,
  including the glossiness and the number of sample rays.

  Click the mouse on a pixel to see the rays traced through that
  pixel.  You can use the right mouse button to rotate the scene to
  see the rays from a different viewpoint.  The rays are coloured:

    blue:   a ray that hit an object
    grey:   a ray that did not hit an object
    yellow: a shadow ray that was sent toward a point light source


To Hand In

  Make a directory called 'a4'.  In that directory, put

    - scene.h
    - schene.cpp
    - README.txt     with your name(s) and netID(s)

  Create a zip archive z4.zip of the a4 directory and submit it to OnQ.

  Follow these submission instructions exactly.
